GM everyone. Welcome to your daily
digest for Thursday, May 8th, 2025,
where I bring you fact-based,
non-sensational, objective information
about what's going on in the broader
blockchain and cryptocurrency space.
Today, we're kicking it off with
something of a fun one that makes me
want to ask the government to introspect
itself. Representative Torres has
introduced a bill that bans Trump
lawmakers from cashing in on meme coins
and stable coins. The bill is called the
Stop Presidential Profitering from
Digital Assets Act, which would
basically make it unlawful for someone
to create, issue, or promote a digital
asset that uses the name, likeness,
image, or other recognizable traits of a
covered individual. And while I
certainly dis or while I certainly agree
that the Trump token was disgusting, as
was the Libra token launched by the
Argentinian president, I also have to
ask that Congress does a little bit of
introspection. There's been a lot of
issues with insider trading with
equities. And I think that that is a far
larger concern that the American public
has alongside this issue that we've seen
with Trump and the Trump token. So get
your house in order, Congress. Stop
making money on the backs of American
voters. The office of the comproller of
the currency has stated that US banks
can handle crypto crypto assets on
behalf of their customers and can be
held in custody. The OC is an
independent bureau within the US
Department of Treasury that regulates
and supervises all national banks and
also the federal branches of foreign
banks. What the OC recently said in this
letter that came out yesterday from
acting comproller Rodney Hood is that OC
regulated banks may buy and sell assets
held in custody and are permitted to
outsource bank permissible crypto asset
activities including custody and
execution services. This is a far cry in
a complete 180 from where the OC stood
just around a year ago that stated that
banks cannot hold crypto assets on
behalf of their customers. So this is
indeed a new era in the
US. The US sec Treasury Secretary has
expressed support for crypto bills at a
recent hearing. Scott Bessant said that
the support for the two crypto-related
bills moving through Congress um should
be held. Uh here in his tweet he said,
"We believe the US should be the premier
destination for digital assets. Digital
assets are an important source of
innovation that can drive usage of the
US dollar around the world with stable
coin legislation."
Um, just the other day,
Democrats covertly or overtly stopped a
conversation about the market structure
bill that was going on in the in the
House. Um, and there are currently two
stable coin bills going through
Congress, the Genius Act at the Senate
level and the Stable Act at the House
level. So, I think overall we're really
getting to a point where we're going to
start seeing some rubber meeting the
road when it comes to legislation and we
have uh topnotch government employees
such as the Treasury Secretary stating
their support for stable coins. Moving
on to stable coins, Stripe has rolled
out stable coin accounts in more than
100 company countries. Um, according to
a May 7th announcement, the new feature
will allow plat the platform's clients
to send, receive, and hold US dollar
stable coin account balances similar to
how a traditional fiat bank works.
Reading between the lines, this is
important because we are helping to
leverage an existing service that
millions of people around the world use
to send cryptocurrencies
um in either cryptocurrency form and or
to help them get their locally
denominated fiat. Um and now there's a
stable coin uh feature that's part of
Stripe. Um, and this is probably largely
a part of Stripe's recent $1.1 billion
acquisition of Bridge, which we'll get
into in a minute.
Coinbase has agreed to acquire the
crypto derivatives exchange Darabit in a
recordbreaking 2.9 billion deal where
$700 million of cash will be used and 11
million shares of Coinbase Class A
common stock are used to acquire
Darabit. Darabit is a
um crypto derivatives trading exchange
and this just joins a suite of products
in acquisitions that Coinbase has done
to make it a more holistic
comprehensive financial asset solution.
Um where are we? So the derabit deal
also marks other Coinbase strategic
acquisition strategies including the
acquisition of Zapo which became
Coinbase custody to goi which is now
Coinbase Prime, Fairx which is now
Coinbase deriv exchange and one river
digital which is now Coinbase asset
management. So, we continue to see the
growth of Coinbase um as the regulatory
and
legislative nature towards crypto in the
US starts to become more friendly. Uh
for a little bit of opium out there, uh
folks are talking about Ethereum price
rising and while I certainly like to see
number go up, I think the cool part of
this article is that the recently
Ethereum total value locked surged 41%
to 52.8 8 billion in the past 30 days
with a 22% rise in daily transactions to
1.34 million daily
transactions. Um and so we can see
number go up and a lot of calls charts
are great. Uh but really this is just
onchain metrics that are showing
strength for Ethereum. Um, and some
other positive signs include a 50%
increase in deposits on Black Rockck's
Biddle Fund and a 33% increase in Spark
and a 25% growth in Etherfi. So, we're
seeing institutional onchain tokenized
asset funds increasing as well as
cryptonative DeFi funds. And wrapping up
in state news, the dichotomy of
Arizona's governor. Um Arizona Governor
Katie Hobbes has signed into law
allowing for the state to claim
ownership of digital assets that have
been abandoned for at least three years
now. Just earlier this month, she vetoed
a bill that would state that the the
state would be able to use its funds to
acquire Bitcoin and other digital assets
for pension funds. But it's okay if your
assets have been seized and you have not
been able to claim them for the past 3
years that can be added to the state's
Bitcoin and crypto strategic reserve. In
addition to this bill that just got
signed, there's also Senate Bill 1373,
which is also on her desk, and that
would authorize Arizona's treasurer to
allocate up to 10% of Arizona's budget
stabilization fund into Bitcoin. And the
Texas House Committee has passed the
Bitcoin reserve bill for full floor
vote. Um, and now that only needs a
successful floor vote before heading to
the governor's desk before being signed
and enacted.
So we are starting to see the
integration of state level Bitcoin and
crypto strategic reserves in advance of
what might what might actually be um a
federal reserve that gets proposed at
some point in this year in the coming
years and maybe we start seeing the US
become a buyer of Bitcoin and other
digital assets. So that wraps up today's
daily digest. If you appreciated what
you're seeing here, please don't
hesitate to come over to the Smart
Economy podcast subreddit where you can
see uh an aggregation of all of the
daily digest videos, our bimonthly
podcast episodes, and the weekly spaces
that we will release every week on the
official Smart Economy Podcast X page.
With all that said, I'm already looking
forward to catching you tomorrow.
Cheers.